Final capstone project for Electrical and Computer Engineering majors at OSU. Involved computer vision and networking with microcontrollers. The objective was to create a device for automobiles that reduces accidents caused by distracted driving. This was accomplished by integrating hardware and software together to create an intelligent system capable of detecting the presence of stoplights in advance of a driver entering an intersection. The software in the system was written in in Python, and utilized several packages to create pipelines for data processing, and object recognition, such as OpenCV, GRIP, and NumPy. At a high level, the program would read each frame from a live video stream and check if a red stoplight was present by creating a 'frame object' and passing it into an object-recognition algorithm. It also received input by networking with the onboard diagnostics system (car computer), which provided data about the instantanious speed of the car. The program would send a noise to a speaker if the algorithm detected a red light, and the car's speed was greater than zero.  The most important hardware components involved in the system were the microcontroller (Raspberry Pi), which ran the Python code, a camera, an OBD-connector (for streaming the speed data), and a speaker for the output. In addition, there were nine other components, which were used for various connections and troubleshooting operations. The source code and final project report are found in this repository.
